About code scanning with CodeQL
You can use CodeQL to identify vulnerabilities and errors in your code. The results are shown as code scanning alerts in GitHub.

¿Quién puede utilizar esta característica?
Code scanning is available for the following repository types:

Public repositories on GitHub.com
Organization-owned repositories on GitHub Team, GitHub Enterprise Cloud, or GitHub Enterprise Server, with GitHub Code Security enabled.
En este artículo
CodeQL es el motor de análisis de código que desarrolló GitHub para automatizar las verificaciones de seguridad. Puedes analizar tu código utilizando CodeQL y mostrando los resultados como alertas del code scanning.

There are three main ways to use CodeQL analysis for code scanning:

Use default setup to quickly configure CodeQL analysis for code scanning on your repository. Default setup automatically chooses the languages to analyze, query suite to run, and events that trigger scans. If you prefer, you can manually select the query suite to run and languages to analyze. After you enable CodeQL, GitHub Actions will execute workflow runs to scan your code. For more information, see Establecimiento de la configuración predeterminada para el examen del código.

Use advanced setup to add the CodeQL workflow to your repository. This generates a customizable workflow file which uses the github/codeql-action to run the CodeQL CLI. For more information, see Establecimiento de la configuración avanzada para el examen del código.

Run the CodeQL CLI directly in an external CI system and upload the results to GitHub. For more information, see Utilizar el análisis de código de CodeQL con tu sistema de IC existente.

For information about code scanning alerts, see About code scanning alerts.

About CodeQL
CodeQL is a programming language and associated tools that treat code like data. It was created explicitly to make it easier to analyze code and find potential vulnerabilities in your code with greater confidence than traditional static analyzers.

You generate a CodeQL database to represent your codebase.
Then you run CodeQL queries on that database to identify problems in the codebase.
The query results are shown as code scanning alerts in GitHub when you use CodeQL with code scanning.
CodeQL supports both compiled and interpreted languages, and can find vulnerabilities and errors in code that's written in the supported languages.

CodeQL supports the following languages:

C/C++
C#
Go
Java/Kotlin
JavaScript/TypeScript
Python
Ruby
Rust
Swift
Nota:

Usa java-kotlin para analizar el código escrito en Java, Kotlin o ambos.
Usa javascript-typescript para analizar el código escrito en JavaScript, TypeScript o ambos.
Para más información, consulta la documentación en el sitio web de CodeQL: Lenguajes y marcos admitidos.

Importante

CodeQL does not support languages that are not listed above. This includes, but is not limited to, PHP, Scala, and others. Attempting to use CodeQL with unsupported languages may result in no alerts being generated and incomplete analysis.

Modeling custom or niche frameworks
GitHub experts, security researchers, and community contributors write libraries to model the flow of data in popular frameworks and libraries. If you use custom dependencies that aren't modeled, then you can use the CodeQL extension for Visual Studio Code to create models for these dependencies and use them to extend your analysis. For more information, see Uso del editor de modelos de CodeQL.

CodeQL queries
GitHub experts, security researchers, and community contributors write and maintain the default CodeQL queries used for code scanning. The queries are regularly updated to improve analysis and reduce any false positive results.

Writing your own queries
The queries are open source, so you can view and contribute to the queries in the github/codeql repository. For more information, see About CodeQL queries in the CodeQL documentation.

Running additional queries
If you are scanning your code with advanced setup or an external CI system, you can run additional queries as part of your analysis.

These queries must belong to a published CodeQL query pack or a CodeQL pack in a repository.

When a CodeQL query pack is published to the GitHub Container registry, all the transitive dependencies required by the queries and a compilation cache are included in the package. This improves performance and ensures that running the queries in the pack gives identical results every time until you upgrade to a new version of the pack or the CLI.

CodeQL query packs can be downloaded from multiple GitHub container registries. For more information, see Personalización de la configuración avanzada para el examen de código.

For more information, see Personalización del análisis con paquetes de CodeQL.
